- [Instructor] In this lesson,
we'll discuss central repositories
and explore your team's options
for hosting them on a remote platform.
Throughout the course, you may hear me using the terms
remote platform and central repository interchangeably.
Just be aware that I'm referring to the same concept.
It's where your team stores the shared copy
of the source code.
Teams using Git will require a central repository
that facilitates their collaboration.
A central repository is, at its core,
just another repository, however,
it allows team members to push and pull changes
to the code base.
The central repository is normally hosted on a remote server
or located within a Git repository management service.
Let's take a look at a few options for hosting.
One of the simplest options your development team has is
to install Git on a server within your hosting environment.
You would choose this option if you don't require a more
full-featured Git hosting solution
or if you are unable to host code on a third-party service.
Setting up the central repository is relatively simple
once Git is installed on the server.
Simply use the command git inti --bare.
Many teams decide to use a repository manager
for their central repository.
Repo managers often provide a cloud-based
or on-prem service for storing source code with Git
as well as additional features
for managing your team's development processes
and collaboration.
Commonly, you will find the ability to track work items
or issues, manage pull requests,
and conduct code reviews within the manager.
A key feature provided by repository managers is the ability
to control access on repositories
by setting user permissions.
Using the manager to ensure only authorized
individuals have access to the repositories helps
prevent against unauthorized file modifications
and can be used to enforce workflows.
Another feature finding its way into repository managers
is the ability to modify code directly
within the repository.
Sometimes you'll even find built-in IDEs.
Let's compare three of the most common
repository services available.
Specifically, we'll take a look at GitHub, GitLab,
and Bitbucket.
Each of these repository managers provides
the common features we discussed in addition
to some extra capabilities.
Most developers are familiar with GitHub,
a leading repository manager popular
with the open-source community.
GitHub is most often used via its cloud platform,
however, enterprises do have the option
to host GitHub on-premise for a fee.
Additionally, GitHub charges a fee
for private repositories hosted on their cloud.
Those using GitHub will enjoy access
to a Rest API to access their data
and a gist feature for sharing small code snippets.
GitLab is a repository hosting service
that has been gaining popularity.
It is offered as a cloud service
and an on-premise installation.
The on-prem installation is completely free
if using the GitLab Community Edition.
Higher tier services are available from GitLab for a fee.
The repo manager also offers direct support
for CI/CD via its GitLab Runner feature,
which can be used for build and promotion
of software artifacts, so you can get continuous integration
and continuous delivery through this platform.
Finally, Bitbucket is a manager with similar features
and usage models to GitHub.
The main benefit of Bitbucket is
that it integrates extremely well
with other Atlassian products.
If you are already using Jira and Confluence,
Bitbucket is a pretty clear choice
for your GitHub hosting service.
Each of these repository managers
we reviewed are excellent choices
for hosting your development team's central repository.
For the purposes of this course,
we'll be proceeding with GitLab's Community Edition
because of its ability to be installed on-premise
for no fee.
As we proceed, we'll explore the benefits GitLab provides
to your team.